# Latour's Keys

This project is a reintroduction of an illustration used by Bruno Latour in
the essay “Technology is Society Made Durable,” of a hotel manager who creates
programs to increase customer compliance in returning their room keys. Verbal
reminder, signage, and a weighted key fob are non-human actants that relate to
customers such that customers either return keys (i.e., follow the program) or
fail to return keys (i.e. follow the anti-program). The illustration seeks to
demonstrate that “if we display a socio-technical network – defining
trajectories by actants’ association and substitution, defining actants by all
the trajectories in which they enter, by following translations and, finally,
by varying the observer’s point of view – we have no need to look for any
additional causes. The explanation emerges once the description is
saturated.”[^1] Latour’s network description is not grounded in an ontology,
and we propose to create a small ontology using the open specifications of
RDF, OWL, and SKOS in order to model it. The point of this project is to
provide a robust, usable, and versatile framework for doing actor-network
analysis, and to champion an approach to non-human actants characteristic of
ANT (Actor-Network Theory) as also helpful for understanding systems. The
interaction between knowledge organization and ANT has been limited, but
should be explored further. ANT operates under certain implied ontological
commitments concerning common properties of human and non-human entities as
actants, and of relationships as formative of actant identities. The use of
actor-network theory can also contribute to organization of programs and
anti-programs of human interaction with technologies of surveillance, access,
documentation, and communication.  These problems currently stand at the
forefront of knowledge organization.  In our project we will explore an
ontology model for Latour’s Hotel Keys and briefly discuss the lessons that
this simple actor-network model provides for knowledge organization.  

[^1] Latour, B. (1990). Technology is society made durable. The
Sociological Review, 38(1_suppl): 103–31, 129.
